# PMem vs NVMe - Benchmark Suite

This project is part of our paper *Drop It In Like It's Hot: An Analysis of Persistent Memory as a Drop-in Replacement for NVMe SSDs*, submitted to DaMoN '21. Please find the abstract blow.

In the folder `microbenchmarks`, you find a C++ project containing the code for running the workload microbenchmarks as discussed in the paper. In the folder `tpc_postgres`, you find a suite of bash scripts managing a containerized setup of postgres and the TPC-H benchmark.

## Abstract
Solid-state drives (SSDs) have improved database system performance significantly due to the higher bandwidth that they provide over traditional hard disk drives. Persistent memory (PMem) is a new storage technology, which offers DRAM-like speed at SSD-like capacity. Due to its byte-addressability, research has mainly treated PMem as a replacement of or an addition to DRAM, e.g., by proposing highly-optimized, DRAM-PMem-hybrid data structures and system designs. However, PMem can also be used via a regular file system interface and standard Linux I/O operations. In this paper, we analyze PMem as a drop-in replacement for Non-Volatile Memory Express (NVMe) SSDs and show possible performance gains while requiring no or only minor changes to existing applications. To this end, we systematically evaluate PMem and NVMe SSDs in three database microbenchmarks and the widely used TPC-H benchmark on Postgres. Our experiments show that PMem outperforms a RAID of NVMe SSD in read-intensive OLAP workloads by up to 4x without any modifications while achieving similar performance in write-intensive workloads. Finally, we provide 4 insights on integrating PMem into existing systems and how to optimize for it when used as an SSD drop-in replacement.